---
layout: post
title: "PPL30 Day 21: Low Pro"
date: 2010-07-04 23:23:40 -0400
comments: true
categories: [ppl30, programming]
---
Continuing the Javascript theme for the weekend, today I sat briefly with Low Pro, a library that began its life as a set of enhancements to Prototype.js.

<em><small>This is part of the Peer Pressure Learning 30 series. To learn more about what in the hell that means, see the intro to the series, [A Good Time To Learn](http://mileszs.com/blog/2010/06/13/a-good-time-to-learn.html).</small></em>

## Resources ##

### Dan Webb's Web Site ###

Dan Webb is the creator of Low Pro. You can find out a lot by simply skimming [the articles about Low Pro](http://www.danwebb.net/lowpro) on his website. In fact, that is where I spent most of my time at the end of this Sunday night.

### Low Pro for jQuery on GitHub ###

Though Low Pro was originally intended to be enhancements for Prototype.js, there is [a jQuery version](http://github.com/danwrong/low-pro-for-jquery) as well. It ports Prototype's Class.create to jQuery. Awesome!

## What I Think I Now Know ##

In 2006, Dan Webb created Low Pro to enhance event handling and DOM manipulation in Prototype.js (both of which are welcome). I recommend reading through the [original post in September 2006](http://www.danwebb.net/2006/9/3/low-pro-unobtrusive-scripting-for-prototype) to see some of the additions. Reading through these, I wondered why I hadn't been using this on the large Prototype.js application on which I worked previously. In particular, the DOM building stuff would've made my life much easier in several instances -- instances which are memorable for the amount of pain I went through using Prototype's building methods.

There is, as mentioned, also a Low Pro version for jQuery. jQuery has some Low Pro-like behavior already implemented. The primary gains from using Low Pro for jQuery are behavior classes:

<% coderay(:lang => :javascript, :line_numbers => :inline) do -%>
Testy = $.klass({
 initialize: function(arg) {
   alert('ive just been attached with the arg ' + arg);
 },
 onclick: function() {
   alert('ive been clicked');
 }
});
// Stolen from the low-pro-for-jquery README on GitHub
<% end -%>

... and the fact that `$.klass` is a full port of Prototype's Class.create! That is a feature definitely absent from jQuery today. I think adding Low Pro to your jQuery project is worth it for that OO goodness alone. 

[The source for Low Pro for jQuery](http://github.com/danwrong/low-pro-for-jquery/blob/master/src/lowpro.jquery.js) is quite small. I recommend giving it a quick skim, as well.

Unfortunately, I don't have much in the way of true commentary on this today. I will, however, be adding it to a project that will be receiving a lot of attention. Hopefully I'll really get to put it through its paces at that point. 

In other words, ask me later!
