---
layout: post
title: "Learned or Re-Learned in My First 60ish days as a Freelancer"
date: 2011-07-08 5:59
categories: [programming, freelancing, business]
---

Though it’s only been 60ish days [1], I have finished a few
projects,some done well, maybe one done not-so-well. As I have battled
my way through the fog of war, I think I have learned a few things worth
mentioning. I have learned where I stand on the issue of payment: hourly
or fixed-bid — with one possible exception. I re-learned that
over-communicating is better than under-communicating. Finally, maybe
most importantly, I learned that even when you lack any motivation to
get things done, you can get things done.

Now, this isn’t all I learned. Freelancing has already been fantastic
for my education and evolution as a developer. These are the
notable,might-be-fun-to-discuss things. On to the show:

Fixed Bids > Hourly Work…
--------------------------

After 60ish days, I’ve decided a fixed bid is better than an hourly
arrangement. One pro is the customer knows how much it’s going to cost
beforethe project starts, which, it seems to me, typically results in a
more comfortable customer. When the customer is more comfortable, I am
more comfortable. Surprises can be fun, but not so much surprise
*invoices*. Another check in the fixed-bid column is I can require 50%
of the project’s cost upfront, which makes me happy, confident,
comfortable, and excited to get started on the project.

I also enjoy the opportunity to attempt to “beat” my bid. In other
words, I want to be more efficient than I thought I could be when I made
the bid. I want to **win**. I want to deliver the same high quality
final product the customer expects more efficiently than I thought I
would. I think people call that a **WIN/WIN**. This is the primary
reason I like fixed bid projects.

That said…

Except When Things Goes Awry
----------------------------

When a project is in a bad way, piling up like so many cars on a busy
freeway, it’s easy to think *“clearly I should only do hourly
arrangements because: Wow! This sucks.”* This is an obvious reaction,
but, man, it is strong. It can also further sap your motivation, your
*gumption*, as you begin resenting every hour you’re spending on that
project. However, the things you can learn on a Pile-Up Project
constitute a whole post of their own. A Pile-UpProject is a great chance
to learn things that will be useful inwinning the next project.

So, forget it, fixed bid is still the greater.

Over-communicating is Way Better Than Under-communicating
---------------------------------------------------------

Not asking questions that need answered, assuming an answer to a
question you didn’t ask, and worrying about being annoying by asking too
many questions are all things that I should not do. I know those. I knew
those. I must have forgotten those. I re-learned them in the past 60ish
days. You know a sure-fire way to create a Pile-Up Project? Do those
things. Man, I’m angry about this. It doesn’t matter how many times it
happens, I **hate** realizing I am repeating mistakes. Hate it. What is
the consequence of over-communicating? What is the consequence of
annoying someone? If the project gets done well, they’re going to forget
they were annoyed. They might even be stoked about it. Over-communicate.
Just… over-communicate. Honestly, it is easy.

I Can’t Always Be Motivated to Get Stuff Done, But I Can Always Get Stuff Done
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I do not always sit down at my desk anxious to begin the day, excited to
work on what it is that I need to work on that day. Some days, I don’t
want to even think about the project about which I must absolutely think
that day. You can’t always have that *gumption* [2]. You can always get
stuff done, though. It’s difficult, and I’m not great at it. It is most
difficult when I’ve just poured my coffee, opened my laptop, and
realized I’ll probably have to put in 12 hours that day. Shit. If I
don’t do something simple, like grab an index card and write down a list
of things I need to get done, the day could go quite poorly. You know
what I do every morning now? I grab a freakin' index card and write down
what I need to get done.

I Cannot Wait to Learn More
---------------------------

I think I have learned some valuable things, and I am very excited to
learn more in the next 60ish days. I suspect that freelancing is an
incredibly effective way to learn stuff, as it is very much a classic
“sink or swim” situation, a trial by fire, probably yet another cliché
that I cannot recall at the moment. Maybe the most important nugget,
though, is that it is a lot of fun.

[1] – It’s been more than 60 days now, but this essay was conceived at
around day 63.

[2] – I am warming up a post about [Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance](\"http://www.amazon.com/Zen-Art-Motorcycle-Maintenance-Inquiry/dp/0061673730/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1310006781&sr=8-1\"), which speaks to *gumption* (approximately *motivation*) and its blockers.

*Thank you to Dave Jones and Mike Rogers for reviewing, critiquing, and
helping me to revise this essay.*
